---
layout: post
title:  "Article accepted to HotEdge 2018"
date:   2018-05-25
categories: publications
---

## Edge Computing Resource Management System: a Critical Building Block!


*Ronan-Alexandre Cherrueau, Adrien Lebre, Dimitri Pertin, Fetahi Wuhib and Jo√£o Monteiro Soares*

Most current infrastructures for cloud computing leverage static and
greedy policies for the placement of virtual machines. Such policies
impede the optimal allocation of resources from the infrastructure
provider viewpoint. Over the last decade, more dynamic and often more
efficient policies based, e.g., on consolidation and load balancing
techniques, have been developed. Due to the underlying complexity of
cloud infrastructures, these policies are evaluated either using
limited scale testbeds/in-vivo experiments or ad-hoc simulators. These
validation methodologies are unsatisfactory for two important reasons:
they (i) do not model precisely enough real production platforms
(size, workload variations, failure, etc.) and (ii) do not enable the
fair comparison of different approaches. More generally, new placement
algorithms are thus continuously being proposed without actually
identifying their benefits with respect to the state of the art.

While it is clear that edge infrastructures are required for emerging
use-cases related to IoT, VR or NFV, there is currently no resource
management system able to deliver all the features that make the
success of cloud computing for the edge (e.g., an OpenStack for the
edge). Since building a system from scratch is impractical, this paper
provides reflections regarding how existing solutions can be
leveraged. To that end, we provide a list of the fea- tures required
to administrate and use edge computing re- sources, and investigate
how existing IaaS managers (i.e., OpenStack) satisfy these
requirements. Finally, we iden- tify from this study two approaches to
design an edge infrastructure manager that fulfills our requirements,
and discuss their pros and cons. This paper aims at initiating the
discussion in our community.

Further information on the [HotEdge website][1]

[1]: https://www.usenix.org/conference/hotedge18/presentation/cherrueau