---
layout: post
title:  "Article accepted to GlobeCom 2018"
date:   2018-07-14
categories: publications
---

## A Tree-Based Approach to locate Object Replicas in a Fog Storage Infrastructure

* Bastien Confais, Adrien Lebre, Benoit Parrein

Fog Computing infrastructures have been proposed as an alternative to
Cloud Computing to provide computing with low latency for the Internet
of Things (IoT). A few storage systems have been proposed to store
data in those infrastructures. Most of them are relying on a
Distributed Hash Table (DHT) which is not efficient because the node
storing the location of the data may be placed far away from the
object replicas. This leads to an access time of more than five
seconds in some network architectures. In this paper, we propose to
replace the DHT by a tree-based approach mapping the physical
topology. Servers look for the location of an object by requesting
successively their ancestors in the tree. Location records are also
relocated close to the object replicas not only to limit the network
traffic when requesting an object, but also to avoid an overload of
the root node. We also propose to modify the Dijkstra's algorithm to
compute the tree used. Finally, we evaluate our approach using the
object store InterPlanetary FileSystem (IPFS) on Grid'5000 using both
a micro experiment with a simple network topology and a macro
experiment using the topology of the French National Research and
Education Network (RENATER). We show that the time to locate an object
in our approach is less than 15 ms on average which is around 20%
better than using a DHT.

Further information on the [GlobeCom 2018][1] website.

[1]: http://globecom2018.ieee-globecom.org